[Term Entry] Lua Coroutines .create() (#3540)
Codecademy/docs: content/lua/concepts/coroutines/terms/create/create.md

---
Title: 'create()'
Description: 'Returns a new coroutine with a function as an argument that will run within the new coroutine.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'

>   - 'Lua'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'Methods'
```
We generally do not create tags for things that are already topics in Docs, as they would be redundant.

CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-lua'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

**`create()`** is used to create a new coroutine with a function as an argument that will run within the new coroutine. This function returns a type thread value. When a new coroutine is created, the status is 'suspended'. The `.resume()` method is used to run or initiate the coroutine. When the execution has completed the coroutine is designated 'dead'.

## Syntax

```pseudo
co = coroutine.create(newFunc)
```

Where `newFunc` is used as an argument to run within the new coroutine.

## Example

The following example shows the implementation of the function and its output.

```lua
-- Create a new coroutine named co_great
co_great = coroutine.create(function (name)
    print("Hi, " .. name)
end)

-- Check a new coroutine status
print(coroutine.status(co_great))

-- Run a new coroutine
print(coroutine.resume(co_great, "Alice"))

> -- Check again after it got run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-- Check again after it was run
```

---

> Title: '.create()'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Title: 'create()'
```

> Description: '.create() is used to create a new coroutine with a function as an argument that will run within the new coroutine.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns a new coroutine with a function as an argument that will run within the new coroutine.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Lua'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-lua'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> **.create()** is used to create a new coroutine with a function as an argument that will run within the new coroutine. This function returns a type thread value. When a new coroutine is created, the status is 'suspended'. Use `.resume()` to run. It will turn to 'dead' once it is finished.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**`create()`** is used to create a new coroutine with a function as an argument that will run within the new coroutine. This function returns a type thread value. When a new coroutine is created, the status is 'suspended'. The `.resume()` method is used to run or initiate the coroutine. When the execution has completed the routine is designated 'dead'.
```

## Syntax

> This function can be written by using this syntax:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```pseudo

> coroutine.create(newFunc)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
co = coroutine.create(newFunc)
```

```

> Where newFunc is used as an argument to run within the new coroutine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Where `newFunc` is used as an argument to run within the new coroutine.
```

## Example

The following example shows the implementation of the function and its output.

```lua
-- Create a new coroutine named co_great
co_great = coroutine.create(function (name)
    print("Hi, " .. name)
end)

-- Check a new coroutine status
print(coroutine.status(co_great))

-- Run a new coroutine

> print(coroutine.status(co_great, "Alice"))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
print(coroutine.resume(co_great, "Alice"))
```

-- Check again after it got run
print(coroutine.status(co_great))
```

The output will look like this below:

```shell

> suspended
> 
> Hi, Alice
> 
> dead

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
suspended
Hi, Alice
true
dead
```
